# Icon generator for websites

This program generates a set of favicons for a given website. Modern websites live in a multi-platform, multi-browser world. This makes it imperative to include not just the usual 16x16 *favicon.ico* file, but favicons of varying sizes as specified by different platforms. The icon sizes configured in this program are based on the specifications from Google and Apple for browsers tabs and splash screens.

### The list of favicons generated by this program:
1. android-chrome-192x192.png
2. android-chrome-384x384.png
3. android-chrome-512x512.png
4. apple-touch-icon-57x57.png
5. apple-touch-icon-60x60.png
6. apple-touch-icon-72x72.png
7. apple-touch-icon-76x76.png
8. apple-touch-icon-114x114.png
9. apple-touch-icon-120x120.png
10. apple-touch-icon-152x152.png
11. apple-touch-icon-167x167.png
12. apple-touch-icon-180x180.png
13. favicon.ico
14. favicon-16x16.png
15. favicon-32x32.png
16. favicon-48x48.png
17. favicon-64x64.png
18. favicon-96x96.png
19. favicon-128x128.png
20. favicon-144x144.png

The `site.webmanifest` file is also generated which is required for Android.

**Note** :warning:: The program does not generate the *mstile* icon for Windows or the *safari pinned tab* icon for Safari.

## Pre-requisites
1. :snake: Python `3.6` or higher

## Setting up the program
1. Clone this repo - `git clone https://github.com/AbhishekPednekar84/icon_generator`
2. Create a virtual environment - `python -m venv venv`
3. Activate the virtual environment - `venv\Scripts\activate` (Windows) or `venv\bin\activate` (macOS/Linux)
4. Install the dependencies - `pip install -r requirements.txt`
5. For Android, specify the background colour of the icon (default is white) in the `constants.py` file. Specify the colour name and hex value in the `ANDROID_BG` and `ANDROID_BG_HEX` variables respectively

## Running the program
1. Place your icon `png` file (use a file with dimensions of 512x512 for best results) file in the root folder
2. Run the program from the command line - `python generate_icons.py` or `python3 generate_icons.py`
3. A new folder called `converted_images` containing the generated favicons,will be created in the project root 

**Note**: The name of the output folder can be changed by altering the value of the `OUTPUT_FOLDER` variable in `constants.py`.



